Tutorial for becoming Erigolem provider (#61)
golemfactory/yagna-docs: provider-tutorials/becoming-erigon-provider.md

# Tutorial for becoming Erigolem provider

> :information_source: `Erigolem` is a codename for "Erigon on Golem" project. More information can be found at 
> [Example service - managed Erigon](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-docs/tree/master/requestor-tutorials/service-development/service-example-2-managed-erigon.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="info" %}
`Erigolem` is a codename for "Erigon on Golem" project. More information can be found at [Example service - managed Erigon](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-docs/tree/master/requestor-tutorials/service-development/service-example-2-managed-erigon.md)
{% endhint %}
```

Here we describe an [installation script](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon/blob/master/install_provider.sh) which should make the whole process of becomming Erigolem provider fun and smooth. Script is prepared for Ubuntu 18.04 or later and should work on other Linux distributions after some modifications.
It's not intended to be run on personal computers because

> * it creates separate user on which provider daemon will be run
> * it installs nginx web server and certbot
> * optionally it will generate Let's Encrypt certificate and set certbot to remind you about certificate renewals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It creates a separate user which will run provider daemon,
* It installs nginx web server and certbot,
* Optionally, it generates Let's Encrypt certificate and sets certbot to remind you about certificate renewals.
```

## Requirements

* Ubuntu 18.04 or later
* Root privileges
* Public IP address or DNS name
* Ability to open a port for the Erigon service

> By default nginx reverse-proxy is listening on standard Erigon port `8545`. You need to open this port for ingres traffic.
> If you wish your Erigolem service to be available on different port number (e.g. `8454` cannot be opened) you need to edit the installation script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% hint style="info" %}
By default nginx reverse-proxy is listening on standard Erigon port `8545`. You need to open this port for ingres traffic. If you wish your Erigolem service to be available on different port number (e.g. `8454` cannot be opened) you need to edit the installation script.
{% endhint %}
```

> <details>

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this renders correctly in GitBook. Have you checked it?

Author: No I haven't it's the most fancy trick I do in markdown. I'll ask someone with experience for the advice.

Author: @shadeofblue adviced to merge this branch to develop first (which is generally a recommended practice)

   "data_dir": "${ERIGON_DATADIR}",
   "passwd_tool_path": "htpasswd",
   "passwd_file_path": "/etc/nginx/erigon_htpasswd",

```

---
</details>
## Parameters for the script

Script behavior can be modified by environment variables

| name | default value | description |
| :-------- | ----------------: | :------------- |
| ERIGON_USER | `golem` | OS user the service is running on |
| ERIGON_DATADIR | `/data/erigon` | Erigon data directory. Each chain data is collected in the subdirs |
| ERIGON_HOSTNAME |   | __HAS TO__ be set before running the installation script, e.g. `ERIGON_HOSTNAME=X.erigon.golem.network`  |
| ERIGON_DISABLE_SSL |  | Test this script without nagging letsencrypt services. If not set, (the inverse) `ERIGON_USE_SSL` is set |
| ERIGON_EMAIL |  | Not needed when `ERIGON_DISABLE_SSL` is set. Email address for the certbot to remind of SSL certificate renewal. |

## Running the script

1. **Download the installation script locally**

```bash
curl -sSfL -o install_provider.sh \
   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon/master/install_provider.sh
```

2. **Review and edit the script if needed**

3. **Execute the script**

> During the installation you will be asked for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the installation you will be asked to:
```

> * accept Golem licence terms
> * provide the name for the provider node
> * provide subnet the node will be subscribed
> * provide wallet address
> * provide price per hour (in GLM)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Accept Golem's licence terms,
* Provide the name for the provider node,
* Provide subnet the node will be subscribed to,
* Provide wallet address,
* Provide price per hour (in GLM).
```

# Tutorial for becoming Erigolem provider

{% hint style="info" %}
`Erigolem` is a codename for "Erigon on Golem" project. More information can be found at [Example service - managed Erigon](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-docs/tree/master/requestor-tutorials/service-development/service-example-2-managed-erigon.md)
{% endhint %}

> Here we describe an [installation script](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon/blob/master/install_provider.sh) which should make the whole process of becomming Erigolem provider fun and smooth. Script is prepared for Ubuntu 18.04 or later and should work on other Linux distributions after some modifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here we describe an [installation script](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon/blob/master/install_provider.sh) which should make the whole process of becoming an Erigolem provider fun and smooth. The script is prepared for Ubuntu 18.04 or later and should work on other Linux distributions after some modifications.
```

It's not intended to be run on personal computers because

> * It creates a separate user which will run provider daemon,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It creates a separate user which will run the provider daemon,
```

> * It installs nginx web server and certbot,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It installs the nginx web server and certbot,
```

> * Optionally, it generates Let's Encrypt certificate and sets certbot to remind you about certificate renewals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Optionally, it generates a Let's Encrypt certificate and sets certbot to remind you about certificate renewals.
```

## Requirements

* Ubuntu 18.04 or later
* Root privileges

> * Public IP address or DNS name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Public IP address or a DNS name
```

* Ability to open a port for the Erigon service

{% hint style="info" %}

> By default nginx reverse-proxy is listening on standard Erigon port `8545`. You need to open this port for ingres traffic. If you wish your Erigolem service to be available on different port number (e.g. `8454` cannot be opened) you need to edit the installation script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default nginx's reverse-proxy is listening on the standard Erigon port `8545`. You need to open this port for incoming traffic. If you wish your Erigolem service to be available on a different port number (e.g. because `8454` cannot be opened), you need to edit the installation script.
```

{% endhint %}

<details>
    <summary><b><i>Example patch changing `8545` to `9999`</i></b></summary>

```diff
diff --git a/install_provider.sh b/install_provider.sh
index 2bb4de9..41ad5e2 100644
--- a/install_provider.sh
+++ b/install_provider.sh
@@ -161,8 +161,8 @@ http {
 
     # example.com
     server {
-        listen                               8545${ERIGON_USE_SSL:+ ssl http2};
-        listen                               [::]:8545${ERIGON_USE_SSL:+ ssl http2};
+        listen                               9999${ERIGON_USE_SSL:+ ssl http2};
+        listen                               [::]:9999${ERIGON_USE_SSL:+ ssl http2};
         server_name                          $ERIGON_HOSTNAME;
 
         ${ERIGON_USE_SSL:+# SSL}
@@ -240,7 +240,7 @@ mkdir -p "${ERIGON_USER_HOME}/.local/share/ya-runtime-erigon"
 
 cat >"${ERIGON_USER_HOME}/.local/share/ya-runtime-erigon/ya-runtime-erigon.json" <<EOF
 {
-  "public_addr": "https://${ERIGON_HOSTNAME}:8545",
+  "public_addr": "https://${ERIGON_HOSTNAME}:9999",
   "data_dir": "${ERIGON_DATADIR}",
   "passwd_tool_path": "htpasswd",
   "passwd_file_path": "/etc/nginx/erigon_htpasswd",

```

---
</details>
## Parameters for the script

> Script behavior can be modified by environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Script behavior can be modified by the following environment variables:
```

| name | default value | description |
| :-------- | ----------------: | :------------- |
| ERIGON_USER | `golem` | OS user the service is running on |
| ERIGON_DATADIR | `/data/erigon` | Erigon data directory. Each chain data is collected in the subdirs |
| ERIGON_HOSTNAME |   | __HAS TO__ be set before running the installation script, e.g. `ERIGON_HOSTNAME=X.erigon.golem.network`  |
| ERIGON_DISABLE_SSL |  | Test this script without nagging letsencrypt services. If not set, (the inverse) `ERIGON_USE_SSL` is set |
| ERIGON_EMAIL |  | Not needed when `ERIGON_DISABLE_SSL` is set. Email address for the certbot to remind of SSL certificate renewal. |

## Running the script

1. **Download the installation script locally**

```bash
curl -sSfL -o install_provider.sh \
   https://raw.githubusercontent.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon/master/install_provider.sh
```

2. **Review and edit the script if needed**

3. **Execute the script**

During the installation you will be asked to:

* Accept Golem's licence terms,
* Provide the name for the provider node,

> * Provide subnet the node will be subscribed to,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Provide the subnet the node will be subscribed to,
```

> * Provide wallet address,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Provide your wallet address,
```

> * Provide price per hour (in GLM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Provide the desired price per hour (in GLM).
```

Example script invocation (__provider values for your environment__ )

```bash
sudo env ERIGON_USER=golem \
         ERIGON_HOSTNAME=ec2-54-74-210-145.eu-west-1.compute.amazonaws.com \
         ERIGON_DATADIR=/data/erigon \
         ERIGON_DISABLE_SSL=y \
     bash install_provider.sh
```

4. **Make sure the port is opened**

> It depends on how your machine was provisioned but you might need also to allow ingres connections on the firewall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It depends on how your machine was provisioned but you might need also to allow ingress connections on the firewall.
```

but prehaps "incoming" would still be a better word? ...

```bash
sudo ufw allow 8545/tcp
```

## Check installation

> After successful installation check the service is running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the successful installation verify that the service is running
```

```bash
sudo systemctl status golem
```

> You can also check the logs of the sevice running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also check the logs of the running service
```

Reviewer 2: unless you meant "You can also check the logs of the seRvice, by running:"
